---
layout: post
title:  "Mod 2 Part 2 Documentation - Interactive Devices"
author: Mirea Klee
---

click [here](https://github.com/miiklee/creative-embedded-systems-mod3.git) for the git repository with source code


### Inspiration and Planning
This project is based around conspicuous consumtion and consumer culture. I was inspired by the box for my new iPhone, because
I always struggle to throw away boxes and in particular the boxes to Apple products. They always seem to be so well made and sturdy
that I do not want to get rid of them, but they are also so specialized to the device themselves that I'm unclear what else to
do with them. As such I decided to use this project to deconstruct the box and use as many of the inner pieces as I could, in addition 
to not using anything not from the box itself except for the electronics. In keeping with the theme of the project, I decided to run
the ESP32 off of the iPhone. Since Apple recently switched to using usb-c ports in yet another attempt to force Apple users to purchase
new chords, the iPhone also came with a usbc to lightning chord that could easily plug into the port on the ESP32.


### Completion
#### Hardware
The hardware used for this project was an ESP32 with a TTGO display, a servo motor and a DC motor run off of the ESP32 and the battery
of an iPhone. Everything was connected using a solderless breadboard. The pinout I used was:

> Servo -- G, 3V, and 36

> DC -- G and 3V


This meant I could control the servo motor, and the DC motor just went as fast as it could. This was very chaotic and I thought
about trying to connect it to a pin and then control it, but part of the running full speed and not getting anywhere helped my
design, so I decided to keep it.

Enclosure design was key to the idea behind the project, so I put the breadboard inside of the iPhone box, and started to make cuts to the
box. I made a cut in both tho inner and outer box to make room for the charge port to stick out. I then cut out a rectangle in the top so the servo motor could sit in flush, and drilled a hole for the DC motor to stick up out of. I also made a hole in the side for a potentiometer to control the speed of the DC motor and completed the wiring for this, but it did not end up fitting in a way that made it accessible to be turned, so I decided not to implement it in the end. 

Photos of the installation can be found in the same github repo linked above. They are not embedding correctly in this page for some reason.

#### Software
The software for this project was not very complicated as all it needed to do was control the servo motor. I wrote code in the Arduino interface
that is uploaded to the github repo above which is a basic loop structure. 



