---
layout: post
title:  "Mod 2 Part 2 Documentation - Interactive Devices"
author: Mirea Klee
---

click [here](https://github.com/miiklee/creative-embeded-systems-mod2.git) for the git repository with source code

### Inspiration and Planning
While messing around with the sensors, and trying to come up with an idea for the project, my roommates mentioned that they thought the ESP32 with headers attached looked like a Hexbug nano--a little toy that uses vibration to move around. That made me laugh, and so continuing with my theme of making something that makes me smile, I decided to go with it.

The original idea was to 3D print an enclosure that looked like a large hexbug and have the sensors manipulate hexbug(s) on a screen. 

### Completion
#### Hardware
The hardware used for this project was an ESP32 with a TTGO display, a button, a potentiometer, and a joystick. I soldered the wires directly to the potentiometer and button terminals, and made sure they had connectors at the other end to easily slide on and off the GPIO pins on the ESP32. I attempted to solder the joystick in the same way, but it was getting messy, and I decided to switch to entirely connector wires. Since connection to the ESP32 was entirely modifiable, I could then change which pins things were connected to if I ran into errors. This was helpful because one consistent error I was getting was in the Arduino IDE where it would timeout in compilation and say "no header files found." After doing some googling, I found that that sometimes happen when you try to use pin 12, so I moved my potentiometer from pin 12 to pin 13 and stopped having that error. The final pinout was as follows:

> Button -- G and 21
> Potentiometer -- G, 3V, and 13
> Joystick -- G, 3V, x = 26, y = 27, sw = 25

The next step was enclosure design. I used tinkerCAD to create a 3D model for the hexbug top and box. I measured the diameter of each of the components and made holes in the top for each of them--using cylinders for the potentiometer and button, and a sphere for the joystick so it would have room to move and be embedded within. When I went to the design center to print it out, the file was too large to fit all on the plate of the printer, so I decided to start with the top and see how that went. My measurements were off so I had to file the hole for the button so it could slide in; I hadn't taken into account the thread width so it was just slightly too small. The potentiometer fit in the hole I created, but the thickness of the top of the enclosure was too thick for the threaded part of the potentiometer to reach the other side so it could be held in place by the nut. I used a drill press with a 1/2" diameter to slowly create a thinner space around the hole until the potentiometer could fit in comfortably. Instead of printing the bottom right away I decided to create one quickly out of plywood so I would not have to wait for the 3D printer. 

#### Software







<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLqmj6Kiz-s" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
