---
layout: post
title:  "Final Project Documentation"
author: Mirea Klee
---

click [here](https://github.com/miiklee/creative-embedded-systems-mod3.git) for the git repository with source code


### Inspiration and Planning
The inspiration behind this project was the Monterey Bay Aquarium seafood watch list. I enjoy how an aquarium is taking the time to inform the public about an issue--i.e. overfishing--and is giving up to date information and steps people can take in addition to creating a space to come and enjoy sea creatures. I wanted to build on this and create something that could be an interactive display in a museum or aquarium type place. I also just love marine life, and am passionate about understanding where our food comes from and what the actual animals we are around are like and why they are like that, so I decided to also do a marine-life piece. 

As for trying to create something that would be a good capstone to this class, I wanted to create something that took elements from all previous modules and blended it together instead of focusing heavily on software or hardware. My original idea would include LEDs, servo motors, and a button all run off an ESP32; it would involve using a laser cutter and 3D printer after modeling and designing everything in tinkercad; and it would have an interactive website which used JavaScript and JSON messages to communicate between a user's interaction with a screen and actual code on a device. This ended up being slightly more ambitious than was feasible, but I still wanted to implement as many aspects as possible.


### Completion
#### Hardware
The hardware used for this project was an ESP32 with a TTGO display connected to 2 servo motors using solderless female-to-female wires. The pinout I used was:

> Servo 1 -- G, 3V, and 36

> Servo 2 -- G, 5V, and 32

The first step I took in creating the physical representation was to make a 3D printed articulated fish. First I messed around until I had designed a fish that I liked. Then I found [these 3D printed articulated joints](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2840744) and used them to segment and then add into the fish I had previously designed. Finally, I added holes at the bottom of the head and tail for it to be held up by later on. I went and tried to print it, but the first try failed. First the print itself failed in that the printer got messed up and didn't manage to complete the print. Second, the part that had printed, the joints all broke and were very brittle. I had tried to scale the joints to 75% of their original size to fit on the fish I had created, but I think that was too small to print successfully.

For my second try at 3D printing I decided to make the fish slightly larger, and thus give it room to use the full size of joints. This print was much more successful, however, since I had tried to create a fish-like shape, it was very round and needed a lot of supports to print successfully. These were very difficult and painstaking to remove, and ended up leaving a certain residue on one side of the fish. If I were to redo it again, I would design a flat fish because I don't think that would detract much from the fish-ness of it, but it would print much more cleanly. However, since I had already made it work with this one and I didn't want to wast more printing filament, I worked with this one for the purposes of this assignment. 

For the enclosure side of the sculpture, I made a box out of hardwood that was lasercut and then glued together. I left the top unattached so I could easily access the wiring underneath. In the top piece I had included holes for the two motors as well as a 2 holes for bolts to hold a piece of plexiglass above the box. Although I had measured everything beforehand, it did not end up fitting well, so I had to put the wood back in the lasercutter with slightly larger holes. I did not have enough wood to simply cut a new top, so I did my best to line up the wood so it would just cut around the holes that were already there. This worked better than I had feared, but it still was not perfect and then meant the motors did not sit perfectly in the top. I also forgot to put a hole in the side of the box for the usb-c cord to attach the sculpture to my laptop, but I had already glued everything together and couldn't put it back in the laser cutter the same way I had for the top. Instead I used a drill with increasingly large drill bits and a file to make a hole big enough to geth the head of the cord through. Then I screwed the motors into the top, making sure they were aligned and pointing towards eachother.

I then turned to making a plexiglass top to hover above the wooden box. My original idea was for it to be attached in the corners by metal rods, but I didn't find any rods that worked. Next I turned to a bolt with nuts at different levels to hold the plexiglass separate from the box. The design center only had large bolts, so I decided to go for 2 large ones in the middle with 3 nuts each. I lasercut out the top from a piece of plexiglass with holes for the 2 bolts as well as semi circles which would allow the poles holding the fish up to move freely while still preserving as much of the plexiglass as possible. I slid the bolts into the top and held them together with the first nut; then I sandwhiched the wooden top with the other 2 nuts so that the plexiglass hovered about an inch off the main box.

I also wanted the plexiglass to appear like it was water, so I designed a two color water design in Procreate which would leave the highlights empty, and thus would be clear. I did not have time in the end to actually cut the vinyl out and attach it to the plexiglass, but the github repo above has the 2 different files for that design.

To attach the fish I first tried using 2 skewers, but they ended up breaking. Instead I got 4 short metal rods and soldered 2 together to make longer ones. This was much sturdier than the skewers and actually managed to support the weight of the fish. They easily slid into the holes I had made in the fish for this exact purpose, but what was more difficult was attaching the poles to the motors and them actually staying upright. I had hoped to just hotglue them together, but that was not sturdy enough and with the weight of the fish the whole thing would sag. My solution was to 3D print little disks that could fit on the rods just above the plexiglass and prevent them from falling down since there was much less vertical range of motion.

#### Software
Step one in the software side of this project was to write the HTML and css for the website component. I picked out a color palette and some fonts and then got to work adding all the elements and coding them in an object-oriented way so that I could refer to all the things relevant to a certain fish at once. I added in photos and wrote up blurbs to accomany each of the fish. Once I got the base to a place I liked I added in JavaScript to let a user click around and have different text appear when they click on each fish as well as turn orange to signify which option they had selected. I also added a prompt when you first open the page just to explain to a user what to do. I also started with the fish along the left side of the page, but I wanted to let a user see all the options without having to scroll and so I switched to everything being horizontal and then had to edit the earlier HTML code so all the elements were organized together. This was my first time using css and JavaScript so there was definitely a bit of a learning curve to make it all work the way I wanted.

Once I had that working I turned to write the code to manipulate the motors just so they would move in unison but in reverse. I used two for loops so that they could switch directions once they reached the end, but both for loops manipulated both motors to make sure they were moving in unison. 

Next was to combine the two sides so that when a user clicked on the website a signal would be sent to the motors to change speed. When a user clicks on a picture a JSON message containing the name of the fish as well as all the speeds that correspond to the different species of fish. The arduino code takes in and decodes that JSON message and selects from the array of speeds the one that corresponds to the given fish. Hypothetically this speed would then be taken into and translated into a delay number which would change the speed of the servo motors so that the fish would swim at that speed. However, it was at this point in the process when my ESP32 decided to not load any code from my laptop making it impossible for me to test code or try and implement this further. It was so late in the process and everyone was so busy that I never managed to get it all working together, but that is the theoretical plan.



